The software package is designed for the synthesis of supervisory controls for untimed and timed discrete-event systems (DES). TCT is intended for supervisor synthesis of systems modeled by finite state automata. The major feature is the computation of the supremal controllable sublanguage for a given plant and specification; thus a designer can achieve maximally permissive nonblocking control.

The state-explosion problem has been a major drawback of the software. One possible partial cure is more advanced data structures and representations for automata. This approach uses binary decision diagram (BDDs) to code automata and develops the control synthesis algorithms for BDDs.

Supervisory control theory (SCT) is a formal model-based methodology for verification and synthesis of supervisors for discrete event systems (DES). The main goal is to guarantee that the closed-loop system fulfills given specifications. SCT has great promise to assist engineers with the generation of reliable control functions. This is, for instance, beneficial to manufacturing systems where both products and production equipment might change frequently.

Scheduling strategies for non-preemptive real-time tasks on uniprocessors typically attempt to derive necessary and sufficient schedulability conditions in order to guarantee the timely execution of tasks. However, evaluating all conditions to allow the optimal scheduling of non-preemptive tasks is intractable, and is prohibitively expensive to be applied online. Therefore, on-line approaches, which often do not allow the liberty of exhaustive enumeration of the solution space, tend to be sub-optimal and heuristic in nature.

Hence, off-line techniques are often preferred over on-line techniques for solving such problems. Among the existing off-line techniques, formal approaches are the preferred choice due to their ability to guarantee correctness and completeness. Using Supervisory Control Theory (SCT) of Timed Discrete Event Systems (TDESs) as the underlying formal approach, this work proposes an off-line optimal scheduler synthesis framework for non-preemptive sporadic real-time tasks on uniprocessors.